>> Melkey: So now we have these
two helper functions to modify,
to inject the context and also to
retrieve the value from the context.
Let's go ahead and create a function so
it's gonna be on user middleware,
and this function is gonna be
called authenticate, okay?
And all this is gonna do this authenticate
function is gonna be a wrapper on our
existing http handler function.
So all those functions that we've declared
in our routes.go.handle, getUserID,
handleCreateWorkout, etc., etc.,
this is gonna wrap them, right?
And the way this can work is when
authenticate gets wrapped by a function,
we want the next handler
function to work right away.
We want authenticate to do its thing, and
then we want the next chain of http
methods to be called right after that.
And so we can do this by
writing next the call, http,
what it's gonna accept is going
to be HandlerFunc, okay, and
it's going to respond with
an http.Handler like so.
And then here we can, right away,
just return http.HandlerFunc, like this.
It's gonna be anonymous function func,
which is going to take w,
http.ResponseWriter, which again,
this is a signature of all those handler
functions, http.Request like so.
And so now within here,
within this anonymous function,
we can interject any incoming
requests to our server, right?
Any incoming request that we wrap
authenticate around, to be specific.
So if you wrap them around all of them,
we will have this
interjecting every single
call that we get, okay?
So with that,
we can first start by adding a w.Header.
I'm gonna add a vary and
an authorization tag,
so authorization like so.
Here we can do authHeader, okay, and
we can do r.Header.Get so
it's gonna request or
get all of the headers
associated with authorization.
>> Melkey: Give ourselves some more room,
okay?
And then we can check if it exists or not.
So here, if authHeader is
an empty string, right?
So that means this request,
there is no authorization attempt.
We can do r, is gonna be SetUser,
so we're gonna pass
an r since it's the first
argument that user expects.
And then we can do
store.AnonymousUser like this.
So now, because the caller here did not
supply us with an authorization header,
we know, or at least we can assume this
is an anonymous, not logged in user.
And so with that,
we can just simply do next.ServeHTTP(w,
r), so then it's going to go into
the next function in the chain,
and then we can return like so.
Otherwise we can start checking header
parts is going to be strings.Split,
okay, we're gonna pass in the authHeader.
At this point, we assume that
the authHeader is not an empty string, and
it does, in fact, exist.
I'm gonna split it on spacing
here because, remember,
it's going to be something like Bearer
<TOKEN> or authorization TOKEN, right?
So this is gonna be the space between the
string is what we're going to be after,
what we're gonna be validating here.
So here we split header parts
into two equivalent pieces.
So here we can do if
len(headerParts) is not equal to 2,
or headerParts at the 0th Index, okay,
does not equal to something like Bearer.
>> Melkey: Okay,
can do utils.WriteJSON, w,
we can do http.StatusUnauthorized,
utils.Envelope, we can say error.
>> Melkey: The invalid
authorization header,
like so and then we can return.
>> Melkey: And so with that, we know
that the header part at the one, so
the second part at the first
index is actually the token.
So token would be headerParts,
1 like so, then user err.
Now we can use that token to
retrieve any sort of user.
So we can use userMiddleware, UserStore,
we can use that new function
GetUserToken like so,
we can put in the token itself.
Let me just remind myself, yeah.
So this first argument is scope here, so
we can do tokens.Scopeauth and
then the token underneath, okay?
We can check that err.
So if err does not equal to nil.
Here we can do utils.writeJSON w,
http.StatusUnauthorized like so,
utils.envelope.
We can say error, all right, and
we can say just invalid token.
>> Melkey: Okay, if user is nil,
all right, we can do the same thing.
So let's just go ahead and
also add the return.
>> Melkey: We can say, if the user is no,
can do StatusUnauthorized, and
we can do error.
Instead of invalid token, we can just say
something like token expired or invalid.
>> Melkey: At the end,
we can do r = SetUser r,
and put in that user, you can do
next.serveHTTP, (w, r) return.